intro update (#686)
usnistgov/FIPS201: _FIPS201/introduction.md

accurate determination of an individual's identity supports making sound access control
decisions.

In the past, a wide range of legacy mechanisms has been employed to authenticate an individual including hand-carried

> credentials such as badges and driver's licenses for physical access to federal facilities and password for logical access to federal information systems. Today, cryptographic mechanisms and biometric techniques are replacing these legacy mechanisms in physical and logical security applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
credentials such as badges and driver's licenses for physical access to federal facilities and passwords for logical access to federal information systems. Today, cryptographic mechanisms and biometric techniques are replacing these legacy mechanisms in physical and logical access applications.
```

This document establishes a standard for a Personal Identity Verification (PIV) system that meets the control and security objectives of [[HSPD-12]](../_Appendix/references.md#ref-HSPD-12). The Standard specifies implementation and processes for binding identities to authenticators, such as integrated circuit cards and derived credentials used in the federal PIV system. It is based on secure and reliable forms of identity credentials issued by the Federal Government to its employees and contractors. These credentials are intended to authenticate individuals who require access to federally controlled facilities, information systems, and applications. The Standard addresses requirements for initial identity proofing, infrastructure to support interoperability of identity credentials, and accreditation of organizations and processes issuing PIV credentials.

> Each revision of this Standard incorporate lesson's learned by Departments and Agencies and adaptation to changes in the environment. This revision  broadening the set of derived PIV credentials to accomodate a diverse and growing set of user device platforms. Interoperability of these PIV credntials accross federal goverment can be achieved via PIV Federation as outlined in the Standard and further defined in [[SP 800-217]](../_Appendix/references.md#ref-SP-800-217). As envisioned by M-19-17, this revision also expands lifecycle activities of the PIV cards to PIV identity accounts in general where all PIV credentials including derived PIV credentials are managed and maintaned.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each revision of this Standard incorporate lessons learned by departments and agencies and adaptation to changes in the environment. This revision  broadening the set of derived PIV credentials to accommodate a diverse and growing set of user device platforms. Interoperability of these PIV credentials across federal government can be achieved via PIV Federation as outlined in the Standard and further defined in [[SP 800-217]](../_Appendix/references.md#ref-SP-800-217). As envisioned by OMB [[M-19-17]](../_Appendix/references.md#ref-OMB1917), this revision also expands lifecycle activities of the PIV cards to PIV identity accounts in general where all PIV credentials including derived PIV credentials are managed and maintained.    
```

> In the past, a wide range of legacy mechanisms has been employed to authenticate an individual including hand-carried
> credentials such as badges and driver's licenses for physical access to federal facilities and password for logical access to federal information systems. Today, cryptographic mechanisms and biometric techniques are replacing these legacy mechanisms in physical and logical security applications.
> 
> This document establishes a standard for a Personal Identity Verification (PIV) system that meets the control and security objectives of [[HSPD-12]](../_Appendix/references.md#ref-HSPD-12). The Standard specifies implementation and processes for binding identities to authenticators, such as integrated circuit cards and derived credentials used in the federal PIV system. It is based on secure and reliable forms of identity credentials issued by the Federal Government to its employees and contractors. These credentials are intended to authenticate individuals who require access to federally controlled facilities, information systems, and applications. The Standard addresses requirements for initial identity proofing, infrastructure to support interoperability of identity credentials, and accreditation of organizations and processes issuing PIV credentials.
> 
> Each revision of this Standard incorporate lesson's learned by Departments and Agencies and adaptation to changes in the environment. This revision  broadening the set of derived PIV credentials to accomodate a diverse and growing set of user device platforms. Interoperability of these PIV credntials accross federal goverment can be achieved via PIV Federation as outlined in the Standard and further defined in [[SP 800-217]](../_Appendix/references.md#ref-SP-800-217). As envisioned by M-19-17, this revision also expands lifecycle activities of the PIV cards to PIV identity accounts in general where all PIV credentials including derived PIV credentials are managed and maintaned.    

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the past, various mechanisms have been employed to authenticate an individual. These include hand-carried
credentials such as badges and driver's licenses for physical access to federal facilities and passwords for logical access to federal information systems. Today, cryptographic mechanisms and biometric techniques are replacing these legacy mechanisms in both physical and logical security applications.

This document establishes a Standard for a Personal Identity Verification (PIV) system that meets the control and security objectives of [[HSPD-12]](../_Appendix/references.md#ref-HSPD-12). The Standard specifies implementation and processes for binding identities to authenticators, such as integrated circuit cards and derived credentials used in the federal PIV system. The system is based on secure and reliable forms of identity credentials issued by the Federal Government to its employees and contractors. These credentials are intended to authenticate individuals who require access to federally-controlled facilities, information systems, and applications. The Standard addresses requirements for initial identity proofing, infrastructure to support interoperability of identity credentials, and accreditation of organizations and processes issuing PIV credentials.

Each revision of this Standard incorporates lessons learned and adaptations to changes in the environment as experienced by departments and agencies. This revision broadens the definition of derived PIV credentials to accommodate a diverse and growing set of user device platforms. Interoperability of these PIV credentials across federal government can be achieved via PIV Federation as outlined in this Standard and further defined in [[SP 800-217]](../_Appendix/references.md#ref-SP-800-217). As envisioned by [[M-19-17]](../_Appendix/references.md#ref-OMB1917), this revision also expands lifecycle activities of the PIV cards to encompass PIV identity accounts, where all PIV credentials including derived PIV credentials are managed and maintained.
```

> In the past, various mechanisms have been employed to authenticate an individual. These include hand-carried
> credentials such as badges and driver's licenses for physical access to federal facilities and passwords for logical access to federal information systems. Today, cryptographic mechanisms and biometric techniques are replacing these legacy mechanisms in both physical and logical access applications.
> 
> This document establishes a Standard for a Personal Identity Verification (PIV) system that meets the control and security objectives of [[HSPD-12]](../_Appendix/references.md#ref-HSPD-12). The Standard specifies implementation and processes for binding identities to authenticators, such as integrated circuit cards and derived credentials used in the federal PIV system. The system is based on secure and reliable forms of identity credentials issued by the Federal Government to its employees and contractors. These credentials are intended to authenticate individuals who require access to federally-controlled facilities, information systems, and applications. The Standard addresses requirements for initial identity proofing, infrastructure to support interoperability of identity credentials, and accreditation of organizations and processes issuing PIV credentials.
> 
> Each revision of this Standard incorporates lessons learned and adaptations to changes in the environment as experienced by departments and agencies. This revision broadens the definition of derived PIV credentials to accommodate a diverse and growing set of user device platforms. Interoperability of these PIV credentials across federal government can be achieved via PIV Federation as outlined in this Standard and further defined in [[SP 800-217]](../_Appendix/references.md#ref-SP-800-217). As envisioned by OMB [[M-19-17]](../_Appendix/references.md#ref-OMB1917), this revision also expands lifecycle activities of the PIV cards to encompass PIV identity accounts, where all PIV credentials including derived PIV credentials are managed and maintained.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the past, various mechanisms have been employed to authenticate an individual. These include hand-carried
credentials such as badges and driver's licenses for physical access to federal facilities and passwords for logical access to federal information systems. Today, cryptographic mechanisms and biometric techniques are replacing these legacy mechanisms in both physical and logical access applications.

This document establishes a Standard for a Personal Identity Verification (PIV) system that meets the control and security objectives of [[HSPD-12]](../_Appendix/references.md#ref-HSPD-12). The Standard specifies implementation and processes for binding identities to authenticators, such as integrated circuit cards and derived credentials used in the federal PIV system. The system is based on secure and reliable forms of identity credentials issued by the Federal Government to its employees and contractors. These credentials are intended to authenticate individuals who require access to federally-controlled facilities, information systems, and applications. The Standard addresses requirements for initial identity proofing, infrastructure to support interoperability of identity credentials, and accreditation of organizations and processes issuing PIV credentials.

Each revision of this Standard incorporates lessons learned and adaptations to changes in the environment as experienced by departments and agencies. This revision broadens the definition of derived PIV credentials to accommodate a diverse and growing set of user device platforms. Interoperability of these PIV credentials across the federal government can be achieved via federation as outlined in this Standard and further defined in [[SP 800-217]](../_Appendix/references.md#ref-SP-800-217). As envisioned by OMB [[M-19-17]](../_Appendix/references.md#ref-OMB1917), this revision also expands lifecycle activities to encompass PIV identity accounts, where all PIV credentials including derived PIV credentials are managed and maintained.
```
